Start by reviewing the data.gov home page. What is this?

An open data site run and funded by the U.S. government that focuses on government data transparency. 

2. Go to Most Viewed Datasets. How many datasets are listed?

There are 402,372 datasets listed.

3. Find the Topic Category for Human Health. Review the range of data sources 
available for this topic. Why do you think these were tagged with the Human Health 
category?

The sources focus on food, nutrition, and demographics. These sources where probably placed in the Human Health Category because they directly affect the health and livelihood of person.


4. Go to the Food Price Outlook. Review the catalog page for this dataset. How can you 
navigate to additional datasets from the USDA?

By clicking on the link "Harvested from USDA JSON" in the Metadata Source Section of the page. This link will give you all the datasets from the USDA.


5. Go back to the data.gov home page. This time, click on Datasets by Organization.


6. Try searching for your city, county, and state. What organizations are returned?

The organizations that are returned are City of New York and State of New York.

7. Search for USDA, and click into the result. Within the USDA datasets, search for food 
composition. Notice that the top three results are all datasets concerning nutrition 
information. Try searching the USDA page for nutrition. How does that affect your 
results?

Before searching nutrition on the USDA page, there were 2,979 datasets found. After searching nutrition there were 229 data sets found.

a) One of the tricky things about working with data is that sometimes the terminology 
used by a data source is not obvious. You may need to dig around and be creative 
to find what you’re looking for.


8. Go back to the results for food composition, and click on FoodData Central. Review 
the catalog page for this data source, then click on the button for Visit Page. Take 
some time to explore the FoodData Central website. 



a) Try searching for butter, or any of your favorite foods. What kind of results do you 
get? What happens when you click on a result?

The page returns links to a variety of options for the food i selected.
If you click on one of the links, you are then taken to an new page with details about the food based on the portion size.

b) Go back to the home page. Find Foundation Foods, and click on Downloads. What 
kind of data can you find on this page? How big are these files? Where can you find
more information on the data types available? 

I found 9 data sets in the USDA data catalog. I do not see the file sizes before I download the files.
You can find more information about the data types in the Additional Metadata section of the page. 


9. When you are finished, make sure your changes to Ex3B_ExploringPublicData.txt are 
saved. 


10. Using Git Bash, commit and push your changes to the DataAnalytics repository. 
