1. Before doing any other investigation, list two or three questions that this infographic
and explanation of methodology raise in your mind.

Why is chicken noodle only popular in two states?

Why are milkshakes so popular in the south?

2. Where can you find Google Trends search data? Provide the URL.

https://trends.google.com/trends/


3. The article concluded that “milkshakes take the crown as the ultimate breakup food,
topping the list in six states.” Pull up Google Trends data on Milkshake (beverage) and
change the date range to February 1, 2024 through February 28, 2025.

a) What is the highest peak recorded in the line chart for “Interest over time”?

In July 2024, milkshakes interest over time peaked

b) What is the lowest dip recorded?

The lowest peak occurred in between November 30 - December 30 2024, dropping to 72 

Year Up United Data Analyst Training Academy Week 1 Lab Workbook

Page 8 of 55

4. At the top next to the box for “Milkshake,” there is a plus sign to add another search
term. Click the plus sign to add a search for Hamburger (Food).
a) What is the highest peak recorded for searches using Hamburger? 
The highest recorded peak occurred between April 30 - may 31 2024

What is the
lowest dip?

The lowest dip occurred between November 30 - December 31 2024
b) What happened to the line for Milkshake?
 What do the high and low look like now?

The Milkshake trends flatlined with a slight dip between September 30 - October 31 2024 and peaking in July 2024

5. Why did the line for Milkshake change? Hint: Click on the icon next to “Interest
over time” for more information about how trend results are displayed.

More people searched for hamburgers during this time than milkshakes which leads to the disparity.

6. Add a third term to your search, this time for Breakup (Topic).

a) Do you see any patterns that suggest a relationship between searches for Breakup
and Hamburger?

When Breakups dipped hamburgers dipped.
When Breakups increased hamburgers dipped.

b) How about between Breakup and Milkshake?

When Breakups dipped milkshakes purchases increased.
When milkshakes increased Breakups dipped.

7. What does all of this suggest about the reliability of the conclusions reached in the
article?

Based on the trend lines, there is no correlation between breakups and cuisine. Unfortunately it is just a coincidence.
 
8. At the upper right of Google Trends, click on the link for “Back to Classic Explore.”
Notice that this view includes a section for “Compared breakdown by subregion.”

a) What was the top state by interest for Milkshake?

The top state by interest for Milkshakes is North Carolina.

b) What was the top state by interest for Hamburger?
The top state by interest for Hamburgers is South Dakota

9. Use the download icon to download a csv file with these search trend results. Save it
to your DataAnalytics/week-01 folder as GTrends_milkshake_hamburger_2024.csv